<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<p style="color:red;"><b>Demo version.</b> The information on this page refers to "IRT database 1.0" which can be obtained by purchasing the commercial license. Please contact the developers:<br/>
<a href="mailto:irt@insysbio.ru?Subject=Comersial%20license">irt@insysbio.ru</a>, 
<a href="http://irt.insysbio.ru">irt.insysbio.ru</a>
</p>
  <h1>IRT development</h1>  
  <h2>Workflow of IRT development</h2>
  <p>The following steps were undertaken:
   <ol>
    <li>Basing on the publicly available literature sources the main players of immune response (cells, cytokines, surface molecules, compartments) were identified.</li>
    <li>Schemes visualizing of immune response were reconstructed and implemented. The schemes include activation/differentiation/proliferation of immune cells, effect of cytokines on immune cells, cell-to-cell interactions etc.</li>
    <li>Basing on the schemes “immune response” model was constructed. Structure of the model takes into account all players and processes presented in the schemes.</li>
    <li>Rate laws of the processes were derived on the basis of existing knowledge available in public domain.</li>
    <li>Quantitative in vitro experimental data specifically describing particular processes of human immune response were collected from literature sources, analyzed, checked for completeness and processed accordingly.</li>
    <li>“In vitro” models were developed taking into account all features of experimental design. These models include rate laws and parameters of “immune response” model.</li>
    <li>“In vitro” models were fitted to corresponding in vitro experimental data and their parameters were identified.</li>
    <li>Identifiability of the fitted parameters was explored in terms of calculation of 95% confidence intervals.</li>
    <li>Several parameters of human “immune response” model were calculated using in vivo/clinical data on humans (cytokines half-life).</li>
    <li>Initial values of species in blood and blood plasma were taken from the data on healthy subjects.</li>
   </ol>
  </p>

  <h2>Data in IRT</h2>
  <p>
  The data search was performed using pubmed, google and google scholar. The following criteria to choose appropriate in vitro data for models calibration were applied:
  <ol>
    <li>Cultured immune cells were obtained only from healthy subjects (except, target cells for experiment describing cytotoxicity);</li>
    <li>Activation of immune cells only with natural activators (cytokines, CD40 ligand) or imitating natural activators (anti-CD3 antibody, anti-CD28 antibody);</li>
    <li>Data with artificial activators/stimulators (PMA, ionomycin) were excluded;</li>
    <li>Data with full description of experimental design (duration of culturing, concentrations of all mediators etc.)</li>
The data met the criteria were extracted from the literature, digitized and processed to the format appropriate for their use in fitting. These processed datasets are included in IRT.  
In vivo data on cytokines intravenous infusion (half-life) in healthy subjects or cancer patients were collected and used to calculate degradation rate constants for cytokines in blood plasma.  
For initial values of variables in blood data on levels of cytokine concentrations and immune cell count in vivo in healthy subjects were collected and used.
  </ol>
  </p>
  
  <h2>Mathematical models</h2>
  <p>
All mathematical models of IRT are based on system of ordinary differential equations. Rate laws are described as mass action law (irreversible or reversible), Michaelis-Menten equation or Hill equation. The effects of cytokines are also described using first order equation or Michaelis-Menten like equations. 
  </p>
  <p>
  All models were developed using the DBSolve Optimum package [PMID: 20698988]. After development and calibration models were then transformed to sbml format.
  </p>
  <p>
  Fitting of parameters were performed using with DBSolve Optimum package [PMID: 20698988]. 95% confidence intervals for fitted parameters were calculated using method based on likelihood ratio test [PMID: 26099035].
</p>

</html>
