<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<p style="color:red;"><b>Demo version.</b> The information on this page refers to "IRT database 1.0" which can be obtained by purchasing the commercial license. Please contact the developers:<br/>
<a href="mailto:irt@insysbio.ru?Subject=Comersial%20license">irt@insysbio.ru</a>, 
<a href="http://irt.insysbio.ru">irt.insysbio.ru</a>
</p>
  <h1>Versions</h1>
    <h2>IRT database 1.0</h2>
  <h3>List of cells, cytokines, surface molecules, compartments</h3>
  <p>
    IRT database 1.0 includes description of the following cells, cytokines, surface molecules and compartments:
     <div class="w3-row w3-padding">
     <div class="w3-quarter w3-padding">
      <ul class="w3-ul w3-border w3-center w3-small w3-card-2">
        <li class="w3-orange"><h5>#1. Immune cells</h5></li>
        <li>NK cells</li>
        <li>Dendritic cells</li>
        <li>Macrophages</li>
        <li>MDSC</li>
        <li>B cells</li>
        <li>Naïve CD4 T cells</li>
        <li>Th1</li>
        <li>Th2</li>
        <li>Th17</li>
        <li>Treg</li>
        <li>Naïve CD8 T cells</li>
        <li>CTL</li>
      </ul>
      </div>
      <div class="w3-quarter w3-padding">
      <ul class="w3-ul w3-border w3-center w3-small w3-card-2">
        <li class="w3-orange"><h5>#2. Cytokines</h5></li>
        <li>GM-CSF</li>
        <li>M-CSF</li>
        <li>IFNg</li>
        <li>TNFa</li>
        <li>TGFb</li>
        <li>IL-1b</li>
        <li>IL-2</li>
        <li>IL-4</li>
        <li>IL-5</li>
        <li>IL-6</li>
        <li>IL-10</li>
        <li>IL-12</li>
        <li>IL-13</li>
        <li>IL-15</li>
        <li>IL-17 (A,F)</li>
        <li>IL-18</li>
        <li>IL-23</li>
      </ul>
      </div>
      <div class="w3-quarter w3-padding">
      <ul class="w3-ul w3-border w3-center w3-small w3-card-2">
        <li class="w3-orange"><h5>#3. Surface molecules</h5></li>
        <li>CD3 (implicitly) / MHC-I / MHC-II</li>
        <li>CD28 (implicitly) / CD80/86 / CTLA-4</li>
        <li>CD40 (implicitly) / CD40L</li>
        <li>PD-1 / PD-L1</li>
      </ul>
      </div>
      <div class="w3-quarter w3-padding">
      <ul class="w3-ul w3-border w3-center w3-small w3-card-2">
        <li class="w3-orange"><h5>#4. Compartments</h5></li>
        <li>Blood / Blood plasma</li>
        <li>Lymph Nodes</li>
        <li>Inflamed Tissue</li>
      </ul>
      </div>
     </div>
  </p>
  
  <h3>Parameters</h3>
  <p>About 30% parameters of "immune response" model included in the IRT database 1.0 are identified.</p>
  
  <h3>In vitro models</h3>
  <p>IRT database 1.0 includes "in vitro" models of following immune cells: B cells, CD8 T cells, dendritic cells, macrophages, NK cells, peripheral blood monocytes, Th1 cells, Th2 cells, Th17 cells and regulatory T cells.</p>

  <h3>Description of effect of co-stimulatory and co-inhibitory surface molecules</h3>
  <p>The description of effect of co-stimulatory and co-inhibitory surface molecules in “immune response” model included in IRT database 1.0 is presented below.</p>
  <p>The way of implementation of effect of co-stimulatory and co-inhibitory surface molecules on cell dynamics processes mediated by cell-to-cell interaction are illustrated by following example.</p>
  <p>Let us consider reaction of specific lysis of target (tumor) cell by CTL. The process can be inhibited by PD-1:PD-L1 interaction, where PD-1 is expressed on CTL and PD-L1 is expressed on target cell.</p>
  <p>
  Rate law of the process can be presented by following expression:
$$ V = k \cdot Target \cdot CTL \cdot inhibitory\_function\left(PD1\_PDL1\right). \tag{1}$$
  Here, \(k\) is rate constant of the process expressed in \(\{l/Kcell/h\}\), Target and CTL are cell counts expressed in \(\{Kcell/k\}\) and "inhibitory_function" is term of the rate law responsible for co-inhibitory effect, \(PD1\_PDL1\) is concentration of PD-1:PD-L1 complex.
  </p>
  <p>To describe the co-inhibitory effect we have assumed that the "inhibitory_function" is monotonously decreasing dependence of concentration of PD-1:PD-L1 complex:<br/>
$$inhibitory\_function(PD1\_PDL1) = 1-Emax \cdot \frac{PD1\_PDL1}{PD1\_PDL1+EC50}.\tag{2}$$
  </p>
  
  <p>Concentration of PD-1:PD-L1 complex can be expressed in terms of free concentrations of PD1 and PDL1:
$$PD1\_PDL1 = \frac{PD1 \cdot PDL1}{Kd\_pd1\_pdl1}, \tag{3}$$
   where PD1 and PDL1 are free concentrations of the corresponding surface molecules and Kd_pd1_pdl1 is equilibrium dissociation constant.
   </p>
  <p>Substituting (3) and (2) into (1), obtains
$$ V = k \cdot Target \cdot CTL \cdot \left(1-Emax\cdot \frac{PD1 \cdot PDL1/Kd\_pd1\_pdl1}{PD1 \cdot PDL1/Kd\_pd1\_pdl1+EC50}\right), \tag{4} $$
Combining \(Kd\_pd1\_pdl1\) with \(EC50\) in equation (5) we can come to following expression:
<br/><br/>
$$ V = k \cdot Target \cdot CTL \cdot \left(1-Emax \cdot \frac{PD1 \cdot PDL1}{PD1 \cdot PDL1+EC50’}\right) \tag{5}$$
where \( EC50’ = EC50 \cdot Kd\_pd1\_pdl1 \)
</p>
<p>
Taking into account that concentrations of PD-1 on CTL and PD-L1 on Target cell can be expressed in terms of the corresponding cell count:
$$ PD1 = c\_pd1 \cdot CTL $$
$$ PDL1 = c\_pdl1 \cdot Target, \tag{6} $$
where \(c\_pd1\) and \(c\_pdl1\) describes the number of PD-1 and PD-L1 molecules per CTL and Target \( \{ pmol/kcell \} \), correspondently, 
and substituting equation (6) into equation (5), one obtains: 
$$ V = k \cdot Target \cdot CTL \cdot \left(1-Emax \cdot \frac{PD1 \cdot PDL1 }{PD1 \cdot PDL1+EC50’} \right) = \\
       k \cdot Target \cdot CTL \cdot \left(1-\frac{Emax \cdot c\_pd1 \cdot CTL \cdot c\_pdl1 \cdot Target}{ c\_pd1 \cdot CTL \cdot c\_pdl1 \cdot Target 
      +EC50’} \right)  \tag{7}$$
Combining \( EC50’ \) with \( c\_pd1 \) and \( c\_pdl1 \) we can come to following expression:
$$ V = k \cdot Target \cdot CTL \cdot \left(1-Emax \cdot \frac{CTL \cdot Target }{ CTL \cdot Target +EC50’’} \right) \tag{8} $$
where \( EC50’’ = EC50’ / (c\_pd1 \cdot c\_pdl1)\). Effect of other surface molecules are described in the same way.
</p>
<h3>Model assumptions</h3>
<p>
"Immune response" model included in the IRT database 1.0 was developed using the set of assumptions. The list of assumptions is presented here:
<ol>
  <li>Bi cells (intermediate activated B cells after antigen recognition) could not proliferate [PMID: 22926059].</li>
  <li>Naive CD8 T cells could not proliferate w/o stimulation [PMID: 16611649].</li>
  <li>All types of dendritic cells could not proliferate [PMID: 10416127].</li>
  <li>Cytokines stimulate cytokine production by non-activated CD56bright NK cells, but not CD56dim. Only combination of cytokines (not alone cytokine) could stimulate cytokine synthesis. There is no cytokine production by non-stimulated non-activated NK cells (both CD56bright and CD56dim) [PMID: 10201989; 11342442; 11241284; 12480696].</li>
  <li>Cytokines (IL-2, IL-15) stimulate non-activated CD56bright and CD56dim NK cells proliferation [PMID: 7523571].The effect of IL-2 and IL-15 on proliferation is equal [PMID: 7523571]. The effect of cytokines on CD56bright and CD56dim NK cells proliferation is equal.</li>
  <li>Simplification – effects of cytokines combination on cytokine synthesis by CD56bright NK cells are described by 1st order equations, e.g., without saturation.</li>
  <li>Antigen induces PBM differentiation into both PBM1 and PBM2 but with different rates.</li>
  <li>Effect of IL-2 on Th1, Th2 and Treg cells proliferation is similar.</li>
  <li>IL-2 does not affect Th17 cells proliferation [PMID: 21905024].</li>
  <li>Th1, Th2, Th17, Treg and CTL could proliferate only in lymph nodes.</li>
  <li>PBM and MDSC do not proliferate.</li>
  <li>There is no direct effect of cytokines on cell migration and cytokine production by cells (except NK).</li>
  <li>Only Th1 cells could license DC and B cells.</li>
  <li>eCTL could not proliferate and produce IFNg/TNFa.</li>
  <li>iDCa (immature DC activated by CD40L) does not take into account. </li>
  <li>Only mDC1, mDC1a, Bi and Ba could present antigen to T cells.</li>
  <li>Th0 cells do not produce IL-2 [PMID: 7875222].</li>
  <li>iMph1 and iMph2 do not produce cytokines/chemokines [PMID: 22880072].</li>
  <li>Only CD56 dim NK cells could migrate into tissue and kill target cells.</li>
  <li>PD-1 is expressed on activated T cells, but not on naïve T cells [PMID: 18173375]. It was shown that PD-1:PD-L1 interaction between T cells and APC could inhibit T cell activation [PMID: 22900886]. The activation of T cells by APC is a complex process, but in the model it is described as one reaction (interaction of naïve T cells with APC). It is assumed in the model that PD-1 is expressed on naïve T cells and PD-1:PD-L1 interaction inhibits T cell activation. On the basis of [PMID: 22306905] it is assumed that PD-1:PD-L1 interaction inhibits the differentiation of Th1 and Th17 cells from naïve CD4 T cells and differentiation of CTL from naïve CD8 T cells. It is assumed that the effect of PD-1:PD-L1 interaction on differentiation of Th1 and Th17 cells is similar.</li>
</ol>
</p>


  <h2>IRT navigator 1.0</h2>
<p>IRT navigator 1.0 includes following functionality:
<ul>
<li>visualization of description and annotation of IRT database components: equations, species, parameters
</li>
<li>access to supplementary materials including files related to "in vitro" models, files with description of parameters calculation and estimation of initial values for species
</li>
<li>navigation across multiple schemes describing different species and processes of IRT database
</li>
<li>automatic generation of model template based on the user selection which can be downloaded as SBML L2/L3 file with or without full or partial annotation
</li>
<li>“filter” search across whole database including interactive representation of search results on the schemes
</li>
<li>various capabilities to include/exclude and check elements in the model of your choice
</li>
<li>the ability to upload and continue to work with previously downloaded model template
</li>
<li>generation of summary with ODE system for chosen elements
</li>
<li>running of IRT in one click in different OS (Windows, Mac OS, Linux)
</li>
</ul>
</p>
</html>
